Over 8 years of experience as a QA Automation Engineer - SDET, extensively worked on Manual, Automation, DevOps Testing of Web Client Server, Cloud(AWS), Mobile, API, Webservices applications. Experience on various domains such as Ecommerce/Retail, Banking, Financial services and Healthcare
Expertise in Manual and Automation Testing of Client/Server, Mobile, Web-based and Cloud (AWS) applications.
Excellent knowledge and implementation skills in complete Software Development Life Cycle ( SDLC ) and Software Testing Life Cycle ( STLC )
Expertise in understanding Business Requirement Specifications, Functional Specifications and Design documentations and converting them into Test Scenarios.
Experience in Waterfall and Agile Projects, worked very closely with Product owners in Agile and attended different ceremonies like Sprint Planning meeting, Scrum, Backlog grooming, Sprint Review and Retrospective
Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks using Java, Selenium WebDriver, Junit, TestNG, Appium, Protractor, Jasmine, Maven, ANT, Jenkins, tools.
Experience of Creating, Modifying and Maintaining new and existing Automation Framework Models (BDD/TDD/ATDD, Hybrid, Keyword and Data Driven Frameworks).
Experience in Core Java, development by applying different concepts like OOPS concepts, Collections, String s, Exception handling, Multithreading , etc. and experience in Groovy and JavaScript.
Worked in DevOps , installing, configuring and integrating Automation scripts on Continuous Integration tools (CI/CD) like Jenkins for nightly test suite execution and working on knowledge on testing and configuring Amazon Web services(AWS)
Expert in developing Behavior Driven development (BDD/TDD/ATDD) by writing Gherkin language using cucumber tool, developed Scenarios, Scenario outlines, features and Step definitions and generating the cucumber reports
Experience in installation and Administration of version control systems like GIT (Distributed Version Control), GitHub, SVN Version Control
Experience in automating Mobile applications using Appium .
Automated AnglarJS applications using Protractor, Jasmine (spec, config files)
Working with Unit Test Frameworks like TestNG, Junit, and Jasmine.
Experience in implementing the Page Object Model (POM) by creating element for each page object and reused all the objects in various scripts.
Experience in testing Web Services-SOA architecture, XML transactions, SOAP, HTTP, WSDL, and REST using various tools like SOAP UI/Ready API and selenium.
Automated Webservices by writing Groovy scripts and used assertions for data validation and performed data driven for validating different endpoints .
Hands on Experience on maintaining Clustered / High Availability Architecture .
Have knowledge on various CLOUD supported authentication systems namely DB, LDAP and SSO .
Expertise in HTML, CSS, HTTP, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, AngularJS and jQuery.
Worked with Eclipse, Jxl, Apache POI, Log 4J, ANT, HTTP client and Maven.
Experienced using tools like Fire Path, Firebug, and UI Automator Viewer for finding elements locator and good knowledge in writing the absolute and relative XPATHS manually on need basis
Performed Database/Backend testing by writing complex SQL Queries for data validation and integrity, good at writing complex Joins and knowledge in PL/SQL
Worked with Selenium Grid/ Sauce labs for running multiple tests across different browsers, operating systems, and machines in parallel
Worked on testing applications on different browsers like IE, Firefox, Android, Safari and Chrome
Experience include Unit testing, Functional testing, User Acceptance Testing, Integration testing, System testing, browser compatibility testing & Security testing of client/server and Web Base Applications.
Expertise in using various defect-reporting and defect-tracking tools like JIRA, Rally, Bugzilla, and HP ALM. 
Experience in writing good quality object-oriented code for testing purposes by following industry standard java coding standards
Excellent interpersonal skills, proven team player with an analytical bent to problem solving and delivering under high stress environment.
Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and perform as part of a team.
Quality oriented mind set up with Test to Break Attitude and Tactful & Diplomatic Behaviour